README.markdown, before:

Git on Windows
===========

1. Install [msysgit][].

2. You may need to run the following command so that the https protocol will work correctly

       git config --global http.sslcainfo "/c/Program Files (x86)/Git/bin/curl-ca-bundle.crt"

3. Clone the repository

       git clone https://github.com/nclack/whisk.git

[msysgit]: http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/

Notes on the source
===============

This project has moved from a development stage, where we were figuring out
exactly how to solve the problem, to more of a production stage.  If you try to
read the source code, you'll find that a lot of the development code has been
left in. Caveat emptor.

Building
======

This package uses a [Cmake][] based build system.  The basic build steps are similar
under Windows, OS X, and Linux.  On a unix-y system, the procedure looks like this:

1. Install CMake 2.8 or better.

2. Install bison if it's not already available on your system.

   For windows, use [GnuWin32 Bison](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/bison.htm).

3. Install awk. 
   
   For windows, use [GnuWin32 Gawk](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/gawk.htm).

4. On Windows and OS X, you'll have to install developer tools.  On Windows,
   that's Visual Studio; one of the free "Express Edition" versions is fine.
   On OS X, the "XCode developer tools" should be downloadable for free.

5. Start in the root of the source directory (in a terminal).
   The contents of this directory look something like this:

        3rdParty/
        CMakeLists.txt
        LICENSE.txt
        README.txt
        TODO
        build/
        config.h.in
        docs/
        include/
        matlab/
        oldbuild/
        pipeline/
        python/
        src/
        ui/

6. Type these commands:

        mkdir build
        cd build
        cmake ..
        make
   
CMake works by building the Makefile, or other required project files, in the 
"build" directory you created.  You don't have to use a Makefile; XCode projects,
Eclipse projects, Visual Studio projects, etc ... can be generated.  To generate
these other project types replace the "cmake .." step with "cmake-gui ..".  The
GUI will show available options.  See the CMake documentation for more details.

[Cmake]: http://www.cmake.org

Whisker tracking
============

Detailed instructions and a tutorial may be found [here](http://research.janelia.org/labs/display/MyersLab/Whisker+Tracking).

File formats
-----------------

### Whiskers

Whiskers can be stored in either a text or binary format.  There is a command
line utility, `whisker_convert`, provided to convert between different
supported formats.  `batch.py` can be used to speed up the process of
converting many files.

The most detailed description of each format can be found in the corresponding
`whisker_io_*.c` files implimenting the readers/writers for each format.

In general, each whisker segment in a file is comprised of a unique id and a 
number of data points describing the shape as output from the tracing program.

### Trajectories

A text file.  Each line corresponds to a whisker segment.  The line is formated
as:

      trajectory_id, frame_id, whisker_id

The frame_id, whisker_id pair uniquely specify the whisker.  The trajectory_id
is an integer that acts like a label.

### Bar

A text file.  Each line corresponds to a frame.  The line is formated as:

      frame_id, x, y

where x, y are real numbers giving the position in pixels, and frame_id is a
natural number indicating the correspondng time point in the movie (in frames).

Graphical interface
---------------------------

See ui/README for instructions on how to use the graphical user interface.

      ui2.py --help

Commit message:

FFMPEG win64 build/installer works.
 - added an updated binary distribution for win32 and win64
 - distribute required dlls with installer
 - not tested yet on win32 and other systems
 - still need to get the matlab build working

README.markdown, after:

Git on Windows
===========

1. Install [msysgit][].

2. You may need to run the following command so that the https protocol will work correctly

       git config --global http.sslcainfo "/c/Program Files (x86)/Git/bin/curl-ca-bundle.crt"

3. Clone the repository

       git clone https://github.com/nclack/whisk.git

[msysgit]: http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/

Notes on the source
===============

This project has moved from a development stage, where we were figuring out
exactly how to solve the problem, to more of a production stage.  If you try to
read the source code, you'll find that a lot of the development code has been
left in. Caveat emptor.

Building
======

This package uses a [Cmake][] based build system.  The basic build steps are similar
under Windows, OS X, and Linux.  On a unix-y system, the procedure looks like this:

1. Install CMake 2.8 or better.

2. Install bison if it's not already available on your system.

   For windows, use [GnuWin32 Bison](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/bison.htm).
   It's best to install it to a path that lacks spaces such as "C:\gnuwin32".

3. Install awk. 
   
   For windows, use [GnuWin32 Gawk](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/gawk.htm).

4. On Windows and OS X, you'll have to install developer tools.  On Windows,
   that's [Visual Studio](http://www.microsoft.com/express); one of the free
   "Express Edition" versions is fine.  On OS X, install the 
   [XCode developer tools](http://developer.apple.com/technologies/tools/).

   If you plan on building a binary redistributable on windows, you may also
   want to install the [Nullsoft Scriptable Install System](http://nsis.sourceforge.net).

5. Start in the root of the source directory (in a terminal).
   The contents of this directory look something like this:

        3rdParty/
        CMakeLists.txt
        LICENSE.txt
        README.txt
        TODO
        build/
        config.h.in
        docs/
        include/
        matlab/
        oldbuild/
        pipeline/
        python/
        src/
        ui/

6. Type these commands:

        mkdir build
        cd build
        cmake ..
        make
   
CMake works by building the Makefile, or other required project files, in the 
"build" directory you created.  You don't have to use a Makefile; XCode projects,
Eclipse projects, Visual Studio projects, etc ... can be generated.  To generate
these other project types replace the "cmake .." step with "cmake-gui ..".  The
GUI will show available options.  See the CMake documentation for more details.

[Cmake]: http://www.cmake.org

Whisker tracking
============

Detailed instructions and a tutorial may be found [here](http://research.janelia.org/labs/display/MyersLab/Whisker+Tracking).

File formats
-----------------

### Whiskers

Whiskers can be stored in either a text or binary format.  There is a command
line utility, `whisker_convert`, provided to convert between different
supported formats.  `batch.py` can be used to speed up the process of
converting many files.

The most detailed description of each format can be found in the corresponding
`whisker_io_*.c` files implimenting the readers/writers for each format.

In general, each whisker segment in a file is comprised of a unique id and a 
number of data points describing the shape as output from the tracing program.

### Trajectories

A text file.  Each line corresponds to a whisker segment.  The line is formated
as:

      trajectory_id, frame_id, whisker_id

The frame_id, whisker_id pair uniquely specify the whisker.  The trajectory_id
is an integer that acts like a label.

### Bar

A text file.  Each line corresponds to a frame.  The line is formated as:

      frame_id, x, y

where x, y are real numbers giving the position in pixels, and frame_id is a
natural number indicating the correspondng time point in the movie (in frames).

Graphical interface
---------------------------

See ui/README for instructions on how to use the graphical user interface.

      ui2.py --help
